README.md, before:

# MCP DJEN Server

**Intelligent Brazilian Court Notifications for LLMs**

A production-ready MCP (Model Context Protocol) server that standardizes access to Brazilian Electronic Justice Diary (DJEN) data for LLM agents and AI applications.

## 🎯 Real-World Impact

This server powers the **Intimação Pro** system, which processes **50,000+ notifications daily** with:
- **95%+ accuracy** in notification parsing
- **<4 seconds** average response time
- **100x ROI** for legal teams
- **Zero false positives** in deadline calculations

## 🏗️ Architecture

![System Architecture](diagrams/architecture.png)

**Flow:**
1. LLM agent requests court notifications
2. MCP server queries DJEN API
3. Data is parsed and standardized
4. Structured JSON returned to LLM

![Request Flow](diagrams/sequence.png)

![LLM Integration](diagrams/llm_integration.png)

## 🚀 Quick Start

### Prerequisites
- Python 3.11+
- Docker (optional)
- Git

### Local Development Setup

```bash
# Clone repository
git clone https://github.com/PdroBrandao/mcp-djen-server.git
cd mcp-djen-server

# Create virtual environment
python3 -m venv venv
source venv/bin/activate  # On Windows: venv\Scripts\activate

# Install dependencies
pip install -r requirements.txt

# Set environment variables
cp .env.example .env
# Edit .env with your configuration

# Run server
python3 -m uvicorn app.main:app --reload --host 0.0.0.0 --port 8000
```

### Docker Setup

```bash
# Build and run with Docker
docker-compose up --build

# Or build manually
docker build -t mcp-djen-server .
docker run -p 8000:8000 mcp-djen-server
```

### Environment Variables

```bash
# Server Configuration
PORT=8000
HOST=0.0.0.0
DEBUG=false

# DJEN API Configuration
DJEN_API_BASE_URL=https://comunicaapi.pje.jus.br/api/v1/comunicacao
DJEN_API_TIMEOUT=30

# Rate Limiting
RATE_LIMIT_PER_MINUTE=100
RATE_LIMIT_PER_HOUR=1000

# Logging
LOG_LEVEL=INFO
LOG_FILE=logs/app.log

# Security
CORS_ORIGINS=*
API_KEY_REQUIRED=false
```

## 🧪 Testing

### Automated Tests
```bash
# Run all tests
python3 test_server.py

# Test specific endpoints
curl -X GET "http://localhost:8000/health"
curl -X GET "http://localhost:8000/intimations?name=PEDRO%20BRAND%C3%83O&date_start=2025-08-01&date_end=2025-08-06"
```

### Manual Testing
```bash
# Health check
curl http://localhost:8000/health

# Get notifications
curl "http://localhost:8000/intimations?name=PEDRO%20BRAND%C3%83O&date_start=2025-08-01&date_end=2025-08-06"

# Get case details
curl http://localhost:8000/intimations/1234567-89.2024.8.13.0001

# Get available courts
curl http://localhost:8000/courts
```

## 📚 API Reference

### Authentication
Currently, the API is open for development. Production deployments should implement:
- API key authentication
- Rate limiting per client
- Request logging and monitoring

### Endpoints

#### GET /health
Health check endpoint.

**Response:**
```json
{
  "status": "healthy",
  "timestamp": "2025-08-06T17:48:25.231962",
  "service": "mcp-djen-server"
}
```

#### GET /intimations
Retrieve court notifications for a lawyer.

**Parameters:**
- `name` (required): Lawyer's full name
- `date_start` (required): Start date (YYYY-MM-DD)
- `date_end` (required): End date (YYYY-MM-DD)
- `oab` (optional): OAB registration number

**Response:**
```json
[
  {
    "date": "2025-08-06",
    "court": "TJMG",
    "lawyer_name": "PEDRO BRANDÃO",
    "oab": "123456/MG",
    "case_number": "1234567-89.2024.8.13.0001",
    "type": "TOMAR_CIÊNCIA",
    "summary": "Intimação para ciência de despacho proferido em 05/08/2025",
    "url": "https://www.tjmg.jus.br/djen/123",
    "deadline": "15 days",
    "actions": ["MANIFESTAR_SE", "CALCULAR_PRAZO"]
  }
]
```

#### GET /intimations/{case_number}
Get detailed information about a specific case.

#### GET /courts
Get list of available courts.

## 🤖 LLM Integration Examples

### OpenAI Function Calling

```python
import openai
import requests

# Configure OpenAI
openai.api_key = "your-api-key"

# Define the function
functions = [
    {
        "name": "get_court_notifications",
        "description": "Get court notifications for a lawyer",
        "parameters": {
            "type": "object",
            "properties": {
                "name": {
                    "type": "string",
                    "description": "Lawyer's full name"
                },
                "date_start": {
                    "type": "string",
                    "description": "Start date (YYYY-MM-DD)"
                },
                "date_end": {
                    "type": "string",
                    "description": "End date (YYYY-MM-DD)"
                }
            },
            "required": ["name", "date_start", "date_end"]
        }
    }
]

# User query
user_query = "Quais são as intimações do PEDRO BRANDÃO para hoje?"

# Call OpenAI
response = openai.ChatCompletion.create(
    model="gpt-4",
    messages=[{"role": "user", "content": user_query}],
    functions=functions,
    function_call="auto"
)

# Extract function call
if response.choices[0].message.function_call:
    function_call = response.choices[0].message.function_call
    
    # Call MCP Server
    mcp_response = requests.get(
        "https://your-mcp-server.railway.app/intimations",
        params=json.loads(function_call.arguments)
    )
    
    notifications = mcp_response.json()
    print(f"Found {len(notifications)} notifications for PEDRO BRANDÃO")
```

### Claude Integration

```python
import anthropic
import requests

client = anthropic.Anthropic(api_key="your-api-key")

# Define tool
tools = [
    {
        "name": "get_court_notifications",
        "description": "Get court notifications for a lawyer",
        "input_schema": {
            "type": "object",
            "properties": {
                "name": {"type": "string"},
                "date_start": {"type": "string"},
                "date_end": {"type": "string"}
            },
            "required": ["name", "date_start", "date_end"]
        }
    }
]

# Call Claude
response = client.messages.create(
    model="claude-3-sonnet-20240229",
    max_tokens=1000,
    messages=[{"role": "user", "content": "Quais são as intimações do PEDRO BRANDÃO para hoje?"}],
    tools=tools
)
```

## 📊 Data Structure

### Input (DJEN API)
```json
{
  "siglaTribunal": "TJMG",
  "texto": "PEDRO BRANDÃO",
  "dataDisponibilizacaoInicio": "2025-08-01",
  "dataDisponibilizacaoFim": "2025-08-06"
}
```

### Output (MCP Server)
```json
[
  {
    "date": "2025-08-06",
    "court": "TJMG",
    "lawyer_name": "PEDRO BRANDÃO",
    "oab": "123456/MG",
    "case_number": "1234567-89.2024.8.13.0001",
    "type": "TOMAR_CIÊNCIA",
    "summary": "Intimação para ciência de despacho proferido em 05/08/2025",
    "url": "https://www.tjmg.jus.br/djen/123",
    "deadline": "15 days",
    "actions": ["MANIFESTAR_SE", "CALCULAR_PRAZO"]
  }
]
```

![Data Structure](diagrams/data_structure.png)

## 🔧 Technical Details

### Performance Metrics
- **Response Time:** < 4 seconds average
- **Throughput:** 100 requests/minute
- **Uptime:** 99.9% (production)
- **Error Rate:** < 0.1%

### Security Features
- **Rate Limiting:** 100 requests/minute per IP
- **CORS:** Configurable origins
- **Input Validation:** Pydantic models
- **Error Handling:** Structured error responses

### DJEN-Specific Challenges Addressed

#### 1. API Instability
- **Retry Logic:** Exponential backoff
- **Circuit Breaker:** Prevents cascade failures
- **Fallback Data:** Mock responses for development

#### 2. Data Format Inconsistency
- **Robust Parsing:** Handles various DJEN formats
- **Data Normalization:** Standardized output structure
- **Error Recovery:** Graceful handling of malformed data

#### 3. Rate Limiting
- **Intelligent Caching:** Reduces API calls
- **Request Batching:** Optimizes throughput
- **Queue Management:** Prevents overwhelming DJEN

### Production Considerations

#### Security
- **API Key Authentication:** Required for production
- **Request Logging:** Audit trail for compliance
- **Data Encryption:** TLS 1.3 for all communications
- **Input Sanitization:** Prevents injection attacks

#### Monitoring
- **Health Checks:** Automated monitoring
- **Metrics Collection:** Performance tracking
- **Alert System:** Proactive issue detection
- **Log Aggregation:** Centralized logging

## 🗺️ Roadmap

### Phase 1: Core Features (Current)
- ✅ Basic DJEN integration
- ✅ LLM function calling
- ✅ Rate limiting
- ✅ Health checks

### Phase 2: Production Ready (Q4 2025)
- 🔄 Real DJEN API integration
- 🔄 Advanced error handling
- 🔄 Comprehensive testing
- 🔄 Security hardening

### Phase 3: Advanced Features (Q1 2026)
- 📋 Multi-court support
- 📋 Notification filtering
- 📋 Deadline calculation
- 📋 Document generation

### Phase 4: Ecosystem (Q2 2026)
- 📋 Plugin system
- 📋 Third-party integrations
- 📋 Community contributions
- 📋 Enterprise features

## 🤝 Contributing

We welcome contributions! Please see our [Contributing Guidelines](CONTRIBUTING.md) for details.

### Development Setup
```bash
# Fork and clone
git clone https://github.com/your-username/mcp-djen-server.git
cd mcp-djen-server

# Install development dependencies
pip install -r requirements-dev.txt

# Run tests
pytest

# Run linting
flake8 app/
black app/
```

### Code Standards
- **Type Hints:** Required for all functions
- **Docstrings:** Google style
- **Tests:** 90%+ coverage
- **Linting:** Zero warnings

## 💼 Business Impact

### For Legal Teams
- **Time Savings:** 95% reduction in manual checking
- **Accuracy:** Zero missed deadlines
- **Compliance:** Automated audit trails
- **Scalability:** Handle unlimited cases

### For AI Developers
- **Standardized Interface:** Consistent API design
- **Production Ready:** Battle-tested reliability
- **Documentation:** Comprehensive guides
- **Support:** Active community

### For LegalTech Companies
- **Integration:** Easy LLM integration
- **Customization:** Flexible architecture
- **Support:** Professional consulting
- **Partnership:** Revenue sharing opportunities

## 📞 Contact

- **Author:** Pedro Brandão
- **Email:** pedro@pdrobrandao.com
- **Website:** https://www.pdrobrandao.com
- **LinkedIn:** [Pedro Brandão](https://www.linkedin.com/in/pedrobrandao)
- **GitHub:** [@PdroBrandao](https://github.com/PdroBrandao)

## 📄 License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

---

**Built with ❤️ for the Brazilian legal community**

Commit message:

fix: Update metrics to reflect real production data from Intimação Pro

README.md, after:

# MCP DJEN Server

**Intelligent Brazilian Court Notifications for LLMs**

A production-ready MCP (Model Context Protocol) server that standardizes access to Brazilian Electronic Justice Diary (DJEN) data for LLM agents and AI applications.

## 🎯 Real-World Impact

This server powers the **Intimação Pro** system, which processes **566 notifications** (test period) with:
- **86.7% accuracy** in comprehensive regression tests (v1.5)
- **<4 seconds** average response time
- **Extremely positive ROI** for legal teams
- **99.5% API success rate** in production

## 🏗️ Architecture

![System Architecture](diagrams/architecture.png)

**Flow:**
1. LLM agent requests court notifications
2. MCP server queries DJEN API
3. Data is parsed and standardized
4. Structured JSON returned to LLM

![Request Flow](diagrams/sequence.png)

![LLM Integration](diagrams/llm_integration.png)

## 🚀 Quick Start

### Prerequisites
- Python 3.11+
- Docker (optional)
- Git

### Local Development Setup

```bash
# Clone repository
git clone https://github.com/PdroBrandao/mcp-djen-server.git
cd mcp-djen-server

# Create virtual environment
python3 -m venv venv
source venv/bin/activate  # On Windows: venv\Scripts\activate

# Install dependencies
pip install -r requirements.txt

# Set environment variables
cp .env.example .env
# Edit .env with your configuration

# Run server
python3 -m uvicorn app.main:app --reload --host 0.0.0.0 --port 8000
```

### Docker Setup

```bash
# Build and run with Docker
docker-compose up --build

# Or build manually
docker build -t mcp-djen-server .
docker run -p 8000:8000 mcp-djen-server
```

### Environment Variables

```bash
# Server Configuration
PORT=8000
HOST=0.0.0.0
DEBUG=false

# DJEN API Configuration
DJEN_API_BASE_URL=https://comunicaapi.pje.jus.br/api/v1/comunicacao
DJEN_API_TIMEOUT=30

# Rate Limiting
RATE_LIMIT_PER_MINUTE=100
RATE_LIMIT_PER_HOUR=1000

# Logging
LOG_LEVEL=INFO
LOG_FILE=logs/app.log

# Security
CORS_ORIGINS=*
API_KEY_REQUIRED=false
```

## 🧪 Testing

### Automated Tests
```bash
# Run all tests
python3 test_server.py

# Test specific endpoints
curl -X GET "http://localhost:8000/health"
curl -X GET "http://localhost:8000/intimations?name=PEDRO%20BRAND%C3%83O&date_start=2025-08-01&date_end=2025-08-06"
```

### Manual Testing
```bash
# Health check
curl http://localhost:8000/health

# Get notifications
curl "http://localhost:8000/intimations?name=PEDRO%20BRAND%C3%83O&date_start=2025-08-01&date_end=2025-08-06"

# Get case details
curl http://localhost:8000/intimations/1234567-89.2024.8.13.0001

# Get available courts
curl http://localhost:8000/courts
```

## 📚 API Reference

### Authentication
Currently, the API is open for development. Production deployments should implement:
- API key authentication
- Rate limiting per client
- Request logging and monitoring

### Endpoints

#### GET /health
Health check endpoint.

**Response:**
```json
{
  "status": "healthy",
  "timestamp": "2025-08-06T17:48:25.231962",
  "service": "mcp-djen-server"
}
```

#### GET /intimations
Retrieve court notifications for a lawyer.

**Parameters:**
- `name` (required): Lawyer's full name
- `date_start` (required): Start date (YYYY-MM-DD)
- `date_end` (required): End date (YYYY-MM-DD)
- `oab` (optional): OAB registration number

**Response:**
```json
[
  {
    "date": "2025-08-06",
    "court": "TJMG",
    "lawyer_name": "PEDRO BRANDÃO",
    "oab": "123456/MG",
    "case_number": "1234567-89.2024.8.13.0001",
    "type": "TOMAR_CIÊNCIA",
    "summary": "Intimação para ciência de despacho proferido em 05/08/2025",
    "url": "https://www.tjmg.jus.br/djen/123",
    "deadline": "15 days",
    "actions": ["MANIFESTAR_SE", "CALCULAR_PRAZO"]
  }
]
```

#### GET /intimations/{case_number}
Get detailed information about a specific case.

#### GET /courts
Get list of available courts.

## 🤖 LLM Integration Examples

### OpenAI Function Calling

```python
import openai
import requests

# Configure OpenAI
openai.api_key = "your-api-key"

# Define the function
functions = [
    {
        "name": "get_court_notifications",
        "description": "Get court notifications for a lawyer",
        "parameters": {
            "type": "object",
            "properties": {
                "name": {
                    "type": "string",
                    "description": "Lawyer's full name"
                },
                "date_start": {
                    "type": "string",
                    "description": "Start date (YYYY-MM-DD)"
                },
                "date_end": {
                    "type": "string",
                    "description": "End date (YYYY-MM-DD)"
                }
            },
            "required": ["name", "date_start", "date_end"]
        }
    }
]

# User query
user_query = "Quais são as intimações do PEDRO BRANDÃO para hoje?"

# Call OpenAI
response = openai.ChatCompletion.create(
    model="gpt-4",
    messages=[{"role": "user", "content": user_query}],
    functions=functions,
    function_call="auto"
)

# Extract function call
if response.choices[0].message.function_call:
    function_call = response.choices[0].message.function_call
    
    # Call MCP Server
    mcp_response = requests.get(
        "https://your-mcp-server.railway.app/intimations",
        params=json.loads(function_call.arguments)
    )
    
    notifications = mcp_response.json()
    print(f"Found {len(notifications)} notifications for PEDRO BRANDÃO")
```

### Claude Integration

```python
import anthropic
import requests

client = anthropic.Anthropic(api_key="your-api-key")

# Define tool
tools = [
    {
        "name": "get_court_notifications",
        "description": "Get court notifications for a lawyer",
        "input_schema": {
            "type": "object",
            "properties": {
                "name": {"type": "string"},
                "date_start": {"type": "string"},
                "date_end": {"type": "string"}
            },
            "required": ["name", "date_start", "date_end"]
        }
    }
]

# Call Claude
response = client.messages.create(
    model="claude-3-sonnet-20240229",
    max_tokens=1000,
    messages=[{"role": "user", "content": "Quais são as intimações do PEDRO BRANDÃO para hoje?"}],
    tools=tools
)
```

## 📊 Data Structure

### Input (DJEN API)
```json
{
  "siglaTribunal": "TJMG",
  "texto": "PEDRO BRANDÃO",
  "dataDisponibilizacaoInicio": "2025-08-01",
  "dataDisponibilizacaoFim": "2025-08-06"
}
```

### Output (MCP Server)
```json
[
  {
    "date": "2025-08-06",
    "court": "TJMG",
    "lawyer_name": "PEDRO BRANDÃO",
    "oab": "123456/MG",
    "case_number": "1234567-89.2024.8.13.0001",
    "type": "TOMAR_CIÊNCIA",
    "summary": "Intimação para ciência de despacho proferido em 05/08/2025",
    "url": "https://www.tjmg.jus.br/djen/123",
    "deadline": "15 days",
    "actions": ["MANIFESTAR_SE", "CALCULAR_PRAZO"]
  }
]
```

![Data Structure](diagrams/data_structure.png)

## 🔧 Technical Details

### Performance Metrics
- **Response Time:** < 4 seconds average
- **Throughput:** 100 requests/minute
- **Uptime:** 99.9% (production)
- **Error Rate:** 0.5% (based on real DJEN API performance)

### Security Features
- **Rate Limiting:** 100 requests/minute per IP
- **CORS:** Configurable origins
- **Input Validation:** Pydantic models
- **Error Handling:** Structured error responses

### DJEN-Specific Challenges Addressed

#### 1. API Instability
- **Real Performance:** 99.5% success rate (5,287/5,288 requests)
- **Response Time:** 95ms average, 99.30% < 500ms
- **Fallback Data:** Mock responses for development

#### 2. Data Format Inconsistency
- **Robust Parsing:** Handles various DJEN formats
- **Data Normalization:** Standardized output structure
- **Error Recovery:** Graceful handling of malformed data

#### 3. Rate Limiting
- **Intelligent Caching:** Reduces API calls
- **Request Batching:** Optimizes throughput
- **Queue Management:** Prevents overwhelming DJEN

### Production Considerations

#### Security
- **API Key Authentication:** Required for production
- **Request Logging:** Audit trail for compliance
- **Data Encryption:** TLS 1.3 for all communications
- **Input Sanitization:** Prevents injection attacks

#### Monitoring
- **Health Checks:** Automated monitoring
- **Metrics Collection:** Performance tracking
- **Alert System:** Proactive issue detection
- **Log Aggregation:** Centralized logging

## 🗺️ Roadmap

### Phase 1: Core Features (Current)
- ✅ Basic DJEN integration
- ✅ LLM function calling
- ✅ Rate limiting
- ✅ Health checks

### Phase 2: Production Ready (Q4 2025)
- 🔄 Real DJEN API integration
- 🔄 Advanced error handling
- 🔄 Comprehensive testing
- 🔄 Security hardening

### Phase 3: Advanced Features (Q1 2026)
- 📋 Multi-court support
- 📋 Notification filtering
- 📋 Deadline calculation
- 📋 Document generation

### Phase 4: Ecosystem (Q2 2026)
- 📋 Plugin system
- 📋 Third-party integrations
- 📋 Community contributions
- 📋 Enterprise features

## 🤝 Contributing

We welcome contributions! Please see our [Contributing Guidelines](CONTRIBUTING.md) for details.

### Development Setup
```bash
# Fork and clone
git clone https://github.com/your-username/mcp-djen-server.git
cd mcp-djen-server

# Install development dependencies
pip install -r requirements-dev.txt

# Run tests
pytest

# Run linting
flake8 app/
black app/
```

### Code Standards
- **Type Hints:** Required for all functions
- **Docstrings:** Google style
- **Tests:** 90%+ coverage
- **Linting:** Zero warnings

## 💼 Business Impact

### For Legal Teams
- **Time Savings:** Reduces manual checking from 30min/day to 3min/day
- **Accuracy:** 86.7% in comprehensive regression tests
- **Compliance:** Automated audit trails
- **Cost:** Only $0.45/lawyer/month (extremely positive ROI)

### For AI Developers
- **Standardized Interface:** Consistent API design
- **Production Ready:** Battle-tested reliability
- **Documentation:** Comprehensive guides
- **Support:** Active community

### For LegalTech Companies
- **Integration:** Easy LLM integration
- **Customization:** Flexible architecture
- **Support:** Professional consulting
- **Partnership:** Revenue sharing opportunities

## 📞 Contact

- **Author:** Pedro Brandão
- **Email:** pedro@pdrobrandao.com
- **Website:** https://www.pdrobrandao.com
- **LinkedIn:** [Pedro Brandão](https://www.linkedin.com/in/pedrobrandao)
- **GitHub:** [@PdroBrandao](https://github.com/PdroBrandao)

## 📄 License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

---

**Built with ❤️ for the Brazilian legal community**
